IBX-6717: Recent activity (#2161)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity.md

---
description: Log and monitor activity through UI, PHP API and REST API.
---

> # Recent activity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Recent activity [[% include 'snippets/experience_badge.md' %]] [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]
```

Recent activity log summaries last actions on the repository (whatever their origin, such as Back Office, REST, migration, CLI, or CRON).

To learn more about its Back Office usage and the actions logged by default, see [Recent activity in the User documentation]([[= user_doc =]]/recent_activity/recent_activity/).

## Configuration and cronjob

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Some configuration allows to customize the log length in database or on screen.
A command maintains the log size in database, it should be scheduled through CRON.

```

> 

Reviewer 2: I would get rid of '"_in database or on screen_".
```suggestion
Configuration allows you to customize the length of log.
To set the log size in the database you need to use a command and schedule it through CRON.
```

* The parameter `ibexa.site_access.config.<scope>.activity_log.pagination.activity_logs_limit` sets the number of log items shown per page in the Back Office (default: 25 items per page). (A log item is a group of entries, or an entry without group.)
* The configuration `ibexa.repositories.<repository>.activity_log.truncate_after_days` set the number of days a log entry is kept before being deleted by the `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` command (default: 30 days).

> For example, the following set 20 log groups per page for the `admin` SiteAccess, and 15 days of life to the log entries on the `default` repository:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, the following configuration sets the value of 20 log items per page for the `admin` SiteAccess, and 15 days of life to the log entries on the `default` repository:
```

First, inject `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\ActivityLogServiceInterface` into your PHP class having to log an activity (such as a custom event subscriber, event listener, service, or controller).

In the following example, an event subscriber is subscribing to an event dispatched by a custom feature. This event has the information needed by a log entry (see details after the example).

```php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/EventSubscriber/MyFeatureEventSubscriber.php') =]]
```

`ActivityLogService::build` function returns an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\CreateActivityLogStruct` which can then be passed to `ActivityLogService::save`.

`ActivityLogService::build` has three arguments:

* `$className` is the FQCN of the object actually manipulated by the feature. For example `Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\Content\Content::class`
* `$id` is the ID or identifier of the manipulated object. For example, the Content ID cast to string.
* `$action` is the identifier of the performed object manipulation. For example, `create`, `update` or `delete`.

The returned `CreateActivityLogStruct` is always related to the currently logged-in user.

> If the object you log an activity on can become unavailable (like after a `delete` action), you might want to also log the name the object has at log time to be able to display it even when the object becomes unavailable. To add this name, use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.

Author: What a complicated sentence!
@bdunogier Is it more clear said like that?
```suggestion
You might want to also log the name of the logged object to be able to display it even if this object becomes unavailable (like after a `delete` action). To add this name, use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.
```

> If the object you log an activity on can become unavailable (like after a `delete` action), you might want to also log the name the object has at log time to be able to display it even when the object becomes unavailable. To add this name, use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.

Reviewer 3: It is !
One thing you could have do in that case: first state the problem, then the solution. Something like "Most objects may deleted or renamed, and this will affect the activity log. Their name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`."

Makes it easier to split the sentence.

> If the object you log an activity on can become unavailable (like after a `delete` action), you might want to also log the name the object has at log time to be able to display it even when the object becomes unavailable. To add this name, use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.

Author: @bdunogier 
```suggestion
When an object is deleted, the recent activity log list can't reach it anymore. When an object is renamed, it can become confusing if the new name is used in old log entries. To still be able to display the information, you can also store the name of the object at the time with `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName`.
```

> If the object you log an activity on can become unavailable (like after a `delete` action), you might want to also log the name the object has at log time to be able to display it even when the object becomes unavailable. To add this name, use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.

Author: ```suggestion
Most objects may be deleted or renamed, and this will affect the activity log. Their name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.
```

#### Context group

> If you log several entries at once, you can group them into a context.

Reviewer 3: I'd mention that it's for _related entries_, that belong together as part of the same operation. Maybe with a short example.

Author: ```suggestion
If you log several related entries at once, you can group them into a context.
```
Not sure about the necessity of a short example. Maybe this is the long example that should be better or earlier introduced.

Reviewer 3: I really mean an example of what an activity log group is. Unless I have missed it, we do not explain the concept and what it is for. A couple examples, like creating a content item and maybe a migration or custom script, could be very useful.

But definitely no need for a code example.

Author: ```suggestion
If you log several related entries at once, you can group them into a context.
A context is a set of actions done for the same purpose.
For example, a context could group the actions of CRON fetching third party data and updating Content items.
Some built-in contexts are:

- `web` to group the update and the publishing of a new Content item's version,
- or `migration` to group every actions from a migration file execution.
```

A context group counts as one item in regard to `activity_logs_limit` configuration and `ActivityLogService::findGroups`'s `$limit` argument.

To open a context group, use `ActivityLogService::prepareContext` which has 2 arguments:

* `$source` is describing (usually through a short identifier) what is triggering the set of actions. For example, some already existing source are `web` (like for actions from the Back Office), `graphql`, `rest` and `migration`.
* `$description` is an optional more specific contextualisation. For example, `migration` context source is associated with the migration file name in its context description.

To close a context group, use `ActivityLogService::dismissContext`.

In the following example, several actions are logged into one context group, even actions triggered by cascade outside the piece of code:

- `my_feature`
    - `init`
    - `create`
    - `publish`
    - `simulate`
    - `complete`

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 63, 83) =]]
```

Context groups can't be nested.

> If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored.

Reviewer 3: Worth mentioning that while nested contexts aren't supported yet, they may be in the future, and it is worth defining these contexts even if they aren't used right now.

Author: @bdunogier Something like that?:
```suggestion
If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored (for now). (Nested context might be supported in the future.)
```

Reviewer 3: Yep. But then you could remove "for now"./

Author: ```suggestion
If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored. (Nested context might be supported in the future.)
```

To start a new context, make sure to previously dismiss the existing one.

> As the context are not really user-friendly, by default, contexts are not shown in the Back Office.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that we should write "they are not really user-friendly". I'd just keep second part of the sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
```

A context group is folded below its first entry.

#### List

To display your log entry, if your object's PHP class isn't already covered, you'll have to:

* implement `ClassNameMapperInterface` to associate the class name with an identifier,
* eventually create a `PostActivityListLoadEvent` subscriber if you need to load the object for the template,
* create a template to display this class log entries.

You can have a template:

* specific to a class identifier and placed in `templates/themes/<theme>/activity_log/ui/<identifier>.html.twig`
* specific to an action on an identifier and placed in `templates/themes/<theme>/activity_log/ui/<identifier>/<action>.html.twig`

> Template existence is tested in reverse order: If there is no action specific template, the identifier's default is used.

Reviewer 2: Check if that is what you mean:
```suggestion
Template existence is tested in reverse order: if there is no action that specifies the template, the identifier's default is used.
```

For the same identifier, you could have specific templates for few actions, and a default one for the remaining actions.

A default template is used if no template is found for the identifier.
The built-in default template `@ibexadesign/activity_log/ui/default.html.twig` has an empty `activity_log_description_widget` block and display nothing for unknown objects.
Your template can extend `@ibexadesign/activity_log/ui/default.html.twig`, and only redefine the `activity_log_description_widget` block for your objects.

> First, follows an example of a default template overriding the one from the bundle. It can be used at development time as a fallback for classes not yet mapped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, follow an example of a default template overriding the one from the bundle. It can be used at development time as a fallback for classes not yet mapped.
```

``` twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/templates/themes/admin/activity_log/ui/default.html.twig') =]]
```

Here is an example of a `ClassNameMapperInterface` associating the class `App\MyFeature\MyFeature` with the identifier `my_feature`:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/ActivityLog/ClassNameMapper/MyFeatureNameMapper.php') =]]
```

> This mapper also provides a translation for the class name in the Filters menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mapper also provides a translation for the class name in the **Filters** menu.
```

First, inject `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\ActivityLogServiceInterface` into your PHP class having to log an activity (such as a custom event subscriber, event listener, service, or controller).

In the following example, an event subscriber is subscribing to an event dispatched by a custom feature. This event has the information needed by a log entry (see details after the example).

```php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/EventSubscriber/MyFeatureEventSubscriber.php') =]]
```

`ActivityLogService::build` function returns an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\CreateActivityLogStruct` which can then be passed to `ActivityLogService::save`.

`ActivityLogService::build` has three arguments:

* `$className` is the FQCN of the object actually manipulated by the feature. For example `Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\Content\Content::class`
* `$id` is the ID or identifier of the manipulated object. For example, the Content ID cast to string.
* `$action` is the identifier of the performed object manipulation. For example, `create`, `update` or `delete`.

The returned `CreateActivityLogStruct` is always related to the currently logged-in user.

> An object may be deleted or renamed, and this affects the activity log. Its name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.

Author: ```suggestion
An object may be deleted or renamed, and this affects the activity log.
Its name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.
This name can be used at the time of displaying if the concerned object isn't available, or to track renaming.
```

> Most objects may be deleted or renamed, and this will affect the activity log. Their name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.

Author: ```suggestion
Objects may be deleted or renamed, and this affects the activity log. Their names at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.
```

First, inject `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\ActivityLogServiceInterface` into your PHP class having to log an activity (such as a custom event subscriber, event listener, service, or controller).

In the following example, an event subscriber is subscribing to an event dispatched by a custom feature. This event has the information needed by a log entry (see details after the example).

```php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/EventSubscriber/MyFeatureEventSubscriber.php') =]]
```

`ActivityLogService::build` function returns an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\CreateActivityLogStruct` which can then be passed to `ActivityLogService::save`.

`ActivityLogService::build` has three arguments:

* `$className` is the FQCN of the object actually manipulated by the feature. For example `Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\Content\Content::class`
* `$id` is the ID or identifier of the manipulated object. For example, the Content ID cast to string.
* `$action` is the identifier of the performed object manipulation. For example, `create`, `update` or `delete`.

The returned `CreateActivityLogStruct` is always related to the currently logged-in user.

> An object may be deleted or renamed, and this affects the activity log.
> Its name at the time of logging can be stored by calling `setName` on the `CreateActivityLogStruct`.
> This name can be used at the time of displaying if the concerned object isn't available, or to track renaming.

Author: ```suggestion
You can still display activity log of an object which was deleted or renamed.
To store the name of the log, you need to use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.
This stored name can be used at the time of displaying if the associated object isn't available anymore, or to now if it has been renammed.
```

#### Context group

If you log several related entries at once, you can group them into a context.
A context is a set of actions done for the same purpose.
For example, a context could group the actions of a CRON fetching third party data and updating Content items.
Some built-in contexts are:

- `web` to group actions made in the Back Office, like the update and the publishing of a new Content item's version,

> - or `migration` to group every actions from a migration file execution.
> A context group counts as one item in regard to `activity_logs_limit` configuration and `ActivityLogService::findGroups`'s `$limit` argument.

Author: ```suggestion
- or `migration` to group every actions from a migration file execution.

A context group counts as one item in regard to `activity_logs_limit` configuration and `ActivityLogService::findGroups`'s `$limit` argument.
```

---
description: Log and monitor activity through UI, PHP API and REST API.
---

# Recent activity [[% include 'snippets/experience_badge.md' %]] [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]

Recent activity log displays last actions in the repository (whatever their origin is, for example, Back Office, REST, migration, CLI, or CRON).

To learn more about its Back Office usage and the actions logged by default, see [Recent activity in the User documentation]([[= user_doc =]]/recent_activity/recent_activity/).

## Configuration and cronjob

Some configuration allows to customize the log length in database or on screen.
A command maintains the log size in database, it should be scheduled through CRON.

> * The parameter `ibexa.site_access.config.<scope>.activity_log.pagination.activity_logs_limit` sets the number of log items shown per page in the Back Office (default value: 25). A log item is a group of entries, or an entry without group.

Author: Done in 2dbab6e6a9e292b0f784a270ade1ba239cea6fc0

* The configuration `ibexa.repositories.<repository>.activity_log.truncate_after_days` sets the number of days a log entry is kept before being deleted by the `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` command (default value: 30 days).

For example, the following configuration sets the value of 20 context groups per page for the `admin` SiteAccess, and 15 days of life to the log entries on the `default` repository:

```yaml
parameters:
    ibexa.site_access.config.admin.activity_log.pagination.activity_logs_limit: 20
ibexa:
    repositories:
        default:
            activity_log:

>                 truncate_after_days: 15

Author: I'm agree with semantic config. I don't know how I get stuck with the parameter instead.

Done in 2dbab6e6a9e292b0f784a270ade1ba239cea6fc0

I set `repositories` first like in the default ibexa.yaml.

  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   319       “Address Book“       create         admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   319       “Address Book“       publish        admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   create_draft   admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   update         admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   publish        admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   320       “HQ“                 create         admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   320       “HQ“                 publish        admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   create_draft   admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   update         admin
  2024-01-29T14:58:53+00:00   317       “Foo Company Ltd.“   publish        admin
 --------------------------- --------- -------------------- -------------- -------
```

### Adding custom Activity Log entries

!!! caution

    Keep activity logging as light as possible. Do not make database request or heavy computation at logging time. Keep them for activity log list display time.

#### Entry

Your custom features can write into the activity log.

> First, inject `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\ActivityLogServiceInterface` into your PHP class having to log an activity (such as a custom event subscriber, event listener, service, or controller).

Author: @mnocon What about the following?
```suggestion
First, inject `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\ActivityLogServiceInterface` into your PHP class from where you want to log an activity (such as a custom event subscriber, event listener, service, or controller).
```

To open a context group, use `ActivityLogService::prepareContext` which has two arguments:

* `$source` - describes, usually through a short identifier, what is triggering the set of actions. For example, some already existing source are `web` (like for actions from the Back Office), `graphql`, `rest` and `migration`.
* `$description` - an optional more specific contextualisation. For example, `migration` context source is associated with the migration file name in its context description.

To close a context group, use `ActivityLogService::dismissContext`.

In the following example, several actions are logged into one context group, even actions triggered by cascade outside the piece of code:

- `my_feature`
    - `init`
    - `create`
    - `publish`
    - `simulate`
    - `complete`

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 63, 83) =]]
```

Context groups can't be nested.
If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored. (Nested context might be supported in the future.)
To start a new context, make sure to previously dismiss the existing one.

> A context group is folded below its first entry.

Author: Looks like the place for an illustration

> A context group is folded below its first entry.

Author: Illustration added at bottom of https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--2161.com.readthedocs.build/en/2161/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity/#context-group

```yaml
ibexa:
    repositories:
        default:
            activity_log:
                truncate_after_days: 15
    system:
        admin_group:
            activity_log:
                pagination:
                    activity_logs_limit: 20
```

To automate a regular truncation, the command `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` must be added to a crontab.
To minimize the number of entries to delete, it's recommended to execute the command more than one time a day.

For every exact hour, the cronjob line is:
`0 * * * * cd [path-to-ibexa]; php bin/console ibexa:activity-log:truncate --quiet --env=prod`

## Permission and security

The **Activity Log / Read** policy ([`activity_log/read`](policies.md#activity-log)) gives a role the access to
the **Admin** -> **Activity list**, the dashboard's **Recent activity** block, and the user profile's **Recent activity**.
It can be limited to **Only own log** ([`ActivityLogOwner`](limitation_reference.md#activitylogowner-limitation)).

The **Activity Log / Read** policy should be given to every roles having access to the Back Office,

> at least with the **Only own log** owner limitation,

Author: 😓 I forgot to remove the parenthesis…

    as this role is shared among all unauthenticated users.

## PHP API

The `ActivityLogService` PHP API can be used to browse activity logs and write new entries.

### Searching in the Activity Log groups

You can search among the activity log entry groups using `ActivityLogService::findGroups` by passing an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Query`.
This `Query`'s constructor has four arguments:

1. `$criteria`: an array of criteria from `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Criterion` combined as a logical AND.
2. `$sortClauses`: an array of `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\SortClause`.
3. `$offset`: a zero-based index integer indicating at which group to start, its default value is `0` (zero, nothing skipped).
4. `$limit`: an integer as the maximum returned group count, default is 25.

See [Activity Log Search Criteria reference](activity_log_criteria.md) and [Activity Log Search Sort Clauses reference](activity_log_sort_clauses.md) to discover query possibilities.

In the following example, log groups containing at least one creation of a Content item is displayed in terminal, with a maximum of 10 groups within the last hour.

> This uses the default `admin` user to have the [permission](#permission-and-security) to list everyone entries.

Author: @dabrt 
I would go with the following as another user with the needed permission would do the trick.
```suggestion
It uses the default `admin` user that has a [permission](#permission-and-security) to list everyone's entries.
```

> This uses the default `admin` user to have the [permission](#permission-and-security) to list everyone entries.

Reviewer: Ok

```php hl_lines="39-43"
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/MonitorRecentContentCreationCommand.php') =]]
```

> ```console

Reviewer: OK, we haven't used it before then. Someday we'll have to review other occurrences of code quotes that have no styling in the doc and apply this styling where necessary.

> ```console

Author: Yes. Like in #1674 w/ `http`

> ```console

Reviewer: I didn't know about these styles, let's ask if the rest were aware of them.

To close a context group, use `ActivityLogService::dismissContext`.

In the following example, several actions are logged into one context group, even actions triggered by cascade outside the piece of code:

- `my_feature`
    - `init`
    - `create`
    - `publish`
    - `simulate`
    - `complete`

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 63, 83) =]]
```

Context groups can't be nested.
If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored. Nested context might be supported in the future.
To start a new context, make sure to previously dismiss the existing one.

In the Back Office, a context group is folded below its first entry.
The `my_feature` context from example is folded bellow its first action, the `init` action.
Following actions are displayed by clicking the **Show more** button.

![The example context group displayed on the Recent Activity page](activity_log_group.png "The `my_feature` context from example")

> #### List

Author: ```suggestion
#### Display
```

To display your log entry, if your object's PHP class isn't already covered, you'll have to:

* implement `ClassNameMapperInterface` to associate the class name with an identifier,
* eventually create a `PostActivityListLoadEvent` subscriber if you need to load the object for the template,

> * create a template to display this class log entries.

Author: @dabrt Thx for the note. It can't be started in random order.

```

This mapper also provides a translation for the class name in the **Filters** menu.
This translation can be extracted with `php bin/console translation:extract en --domain=ibexa_activity_log --dir=src --output-dir=translations`.

To be taken into account, this mapper must be registered as a service:

``` yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/config/append_to_services.yaml') =]]
```

Here is an example of a `PostActivityListLoadEvent` subscriber which loads the related object when it's a `App\MyFeature\MyFeature`, and attaches it to the log entry:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/EventSubscriber/MyFeaturePostActivityListLoadEventSubscriber.php') =]]
```

The following template is made to display the object of `App\MyFeature\MyFeature` (now identified as `my_feature`) when the action is `simulate`,
so, it's named in `templates/themes/admin/activity_log/ui/my_feature/simulate.html.twig`.
Thanks to the previous subscriber, the related object is available at display time:

``` twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/templates/themes/admin/activity_log/ui/my_feature/simulate.html.twig') =]]
```

## REST API

> REST API can be used to browse activity logs, see in the [REST API reference](../../api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html#monitoring-activity).

Author: @dabrt 2nd avoids passive. Perfect.

## Permission and security

The ([`activity_log/read`](policies.md#activity-log)) policy gives a role the access to the **Admin** -> **Activity list**, the dashboard's **Recent activity** block, and the user profile's **Recent activity**.
It can be limited to "Only own logs" ([`ActivityLogOwner`](limitation_reference.md#activitylogowner-limitation)).

The policy should be given to every roles having access to the Back Office, at least with the `ActivityLogOwner` owner limitation,
to allow them to use the "Recent activity" block in the [default dashboard](configure_default_dashboard.md) or their [custom dashboard](customize_dashboard.md).
This policy is required to view [activity log in user profile]([[= user_doc =]]/recent_activity/recent_activity/#user-profile), if [profile]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/get_started/#edit-user-profile) is enabled.

!!! caution

    Do not assign `activity_log/read` permission to the Anonymous role, even with the owner limitation, because this role is shared among all unauthenticated users.

## PHP API

The `ActivityLogService` PHP API can be used to browse activity logs and write new entries.

### Searching in the Activity Log groups

> You can search among the activity log entry groups with the `ActivityLogService::findGroups` command, by passing an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Query`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can search among the activity log entry groups with the `ActivityLogService::findGroups` method, by passing an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Query` object.
```

I'd keep the `command` keyword reserved for Symfony Commands

`ActivityLogService::build` has three arguments:

- `$className` is a FQCN of the object actually manipulated by the feature, for example `Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\Content\Content::class`
- `$id` is an ID or identifier of the manipulated object, for example, the Content ID cast to string
- `$action` is an identifier of the performed object manipulation, or example, `create`, `update` or `delete`

The returned `CreateActivityLogStruct` is always related to the currently logged-in user.

You can still display activity log of an object which was deleted or renamed.
To store the name of the log, you need to use `CreateActivityLogStruct::setName` before saving the log entry.
This stored name can be used at the time of displaying information whether the associated object isn't available anymore, or to check if it has been renamed.

#### Context group

If you log several related entries at once, you can group them into a context.
Context is a set of actions done for the same purpose, for example, it could group the actions of a CRON that fetches third party data and updates Content items.
The built-in contexts include:

> - `web` - groups actions made in the Back Office, like the update and the publishing of a new Content item's version

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `web` - groups actions made in the Back Office, like the update and the publishing of a new content item's version
```
Vale suggestion

```yaml
parameters:
    ibexa.site_access.config.admin.activity_log.pagination.activity_logs_limit: 20
ibexa:
    repositories:
        default:
            activity_log:
                truncate_after_days: 15
```

To automate a regular truncation, the command `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` must be added to a crontab.
To minimize the number of entries to delete, it is recommended to execute the command more than one time a day.

For every exact hour, the cronjob line is:
`0 * * * * cd [path-to-ibexa]; php bin/console ibexa:activity-log:truncate --quiet --env=prod`

## Permission and security

The "Activity Log / Read" policy (`activity_log/read`) gives a role the access to
the "Admin > Activity list", the dashboard's "Recent activity" block, and the user profile's "Recent activity".
It can be limited to "Only own log".

The "Activity Log / Read" policy should be given to every roles having access to the Back Office,
at least with the "Only own log" owner limitation,
to allow them to use the "Recent activity" block in the default dashboard or their custom dashboard.

> This policy is also required by user having a profile to properly view their own.

Author: TODO: links to dashboard and profile docs

!!! caution

    Never give `activity_log/read` permission to Anonymous role, even with the owner limitation,
    as this role is shared among all unauthenticated users.

## PHP API

The ActivityLogService PHP API can be used to browse activity logs and write new entries.

### Searching in the Activity Log entries

TODO: Quick example of …\ActivityLog\Query passed to ActivityLogService(Interface)::find and loop through the returned ActivityList(Interface)

See [Activity Log Search Criteria reference](activity_log_search.md) to discover query possibilities.

### Adding custom Activity Log entries

Your custom features could write into the activity log.

TODO: Illustrate the use of ActivityLogService(Interface)::build & ActivityLogService(Interface)::save

> 

Author: Covered in #2159

## REST API

> REST API can be used to browse activity logs, see in the [REST API reference](../../api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html#monitoring-activity).

Author: Covered in #2157

https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--2157.com.readthedocs.build/en/2157/api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html#monitoring-activity

> REST API can be used to browse activity logs, see in the [REST API reference](../../api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html#monitoring-activity-log).

Author: Covered in #2157
